The other bit that I'll show you in the administrative section is how to
create a goal because a lot of the very useful stuff you can do in Google
Analytics results is about like users reaching a goal.
So if I go into the Goals section and create a new goal,
a very common goal, there are lots of different kinds,
but a goal that you're probably going to use a lot is --- what is this?
This is new.
I'm going to go with Custom because this scares me.
So, a goal we're probably going to use a lot is arriving on a certain page.
Whether it's like a marketing page that you're trying to drive a lot of
traffic to or if it's a page like after a user signs up,
it's a successful signup page, if people are reaching those goal pages,
like that is an event that you want to track in your analytics.
So, I could create a goal for a page that doesn't exist called signup.
And you can only, in Google Analytics, this is another limitation,
you can only set a certain amount of goals.
I haven't used any of my goal slots yet, so I will go with Goal 1.
And, the type of goal I'm going to create is a destination.
So that's going to be a specific place that somebody can go on my site.
And then, for the destination,
you can have any page that begins with something or you can
have a specific page like /signup-success.
So,
this is how you know that somebody successfully made
it through your entire signup flow.
And then there's other advanced stuff you can do
here for funnels and what have you.
But I'm going to create that goal even though I'm not going
to actually catch anybody with that goal.
But if I go back to my customization and my custom report,
I can actually track that now as a metric in my report.
So in this case, I won't name my report yet,
but I will add as a metric here that specific goal that I just configured.
So, it was Goal 1, which we called signup.
So, there are a few different metrics you can track based on the goal.
You can check the raw number, which is going to be signup completions.
So that'll be the raw number of times somebody arrived on that page.
And then you can also track the --- Goal 1,
you can also track the conversion rate.
So,
this is one that you're going to use in conjunction with
a landing page report like this one.
So you can say across all landing pages on my site,
show me how many signups each one of them generated,
and then also show me the conversion rate,
what percentage of sessions that began on this page
resulted in the type of goal that I created.
So this ends up being a powerful combination to start looking at
specific sections of content in your site to understand like
what pages are performing the best,
what sections of the site are performing the best,
and how good a job you're doing at converting users into doing
the things that you care about on your site.
Now the last bit I'll show you here in the UI is the ability to create segments.
And a wise man once told me that segments are where
Jesus lives in Google Analytics.
And this is how you can really start to break down which sets of
browsing sessions on your site are the most valuable.
So if I open up this UI to create a new segment,
I can create a customized view of a certain set of users and
compare them to other kinds of users on my site.
So for this one, I will say Russian Users because apparently my site,
like there's some weird spammy stuff going on so like over half
of the traffic to my site is from Russia.
So,
we'll separate them out as a segment and look at
them in comparison to some others.
So, some of the conditions we can do are demographics and location.
So we can do country contains Russia.
And that's going to be, as it updates, oh,
it's only 48%, I guess, of users on my site are coming from Russia.
So I've created a segment for just Russian users that visit my website.
So I can look at just those users and then I can look at the inverse as well.
So I can create a segment for non-Russians.
And I can look at how the behavior of these two --- does not contain.
And if our math is correct, --- (Inaudible) Oh I didn't --- oh oops,
did I say contains?
I think it changed it back when you chose the country.
Oh oops.
Does not contain.
Good job team.
And there we are back to 51%.
And,
let's edit this report back to something that might actually be like kind of
interesting and look at some metrics like time on page,
like average time on page and bounce rate,
let's say.
We'll save that up.
So, it turns out that the Russian traffic,
which I assumed to be almost completely due to shenanigans,
is a much higher time on page and people from everywhere
else in the world spend an average of 30 seconds on any
given landing page on the site.
So I can kind of sort and see which ones are performing
the best based on average time on page.
The about page is clearly out performing,
but I can see that folks that are coming from outside of Russia
actually bounce much less frequently so they're more likely to see
more than one page during their browsing session.
So, doing segments by geography can be useful.
But it's also very useful to create segments by event.
So, if you have a session which contained like a video play event,
those types of users might behave very differently from users that
didn't initiate like a video play say on your site.
So, I know there's a ton to do in this tool.
If you have more questions about it, I'm happy to geek out on this.
I'm learning more about the tool all the time trying to get better at it.
And the more I learn,
the more I want to learn more about how users are interacting with the site.
So,
hopefully this will put a bug in your ear to get that same level of visibility into your own websites.